=head1 NAME

ffcast - screencast an interactively selected region

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item B<ffcast> [<options>] B<%> [<command> [<args>]]

=item B<ffcast> [<options>] [<command> [<args>] [B<-->] [<args>]]

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ffcast is a thin glue between interactive region selection and command line
tools that accept numerical geometry parameters. It makes passing geometry
parameters to command line tools as easy as a mouse click. Screencasting
tools are typical examples of such command line tools.

Typically, ffcast prompts the user to select a screen region and injects the
geometry parameters thereof into the arguments of I<E<lt>commandE<gt>>, and
then executes the resultant command line.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h,--help>

Print help message, then exit.

=item B<-l>

List commands recognized by the B<double hyphen syntax>, then exit.

=item B<-p>

Print geometry of the selected region and exit without executing
I<E<lt>commandE<gt>>. The dimensions are not trimmed.

=item B<-s>

Prompt to select a region.

=item B<-w>

Prompt to select a window.

=item B<-f>

Include window frame in the selected application.

=item B<-v>

Be more verbose.

=item B<-q>

Be less verbose.

=item B<-m> I<E<lt>nE<gt>>

Trim both dimensions of the region to be divisible by I<E<lt>nE<gt>>. By
default, both dimensions are trimmed to be divisible by C<2>, which is
required by B<x264>. A value of C<16> may help when encoding to most video
codecs. A value of C<1> disables trimming.

=item B<-x> I<E<lt>nE<gt>>

Select a B<Xinerama> head of ID I<E<lt>nE<gt>>. Multiple heads can be
specified either as a comma-separate list, or by repeating this option. Use
C<list> to get a list of head IDs and the corresponding geometry parameters.

=back

=head1 FORMAT STRINGS

The B<format string syntax> defines the following format strings:

=over 4

=item B<%d>

B<DISPLAY>

=item B<%h>

Height

=item B<%w>

Width

=item B<%x>

Left offset

=item B<%y>

Top offset

=item B<%X>

Right offset

=item B<%Y>

Bottom offset

=item B<%%>

A literal %

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Use the recognized command B<ffmpeg> in the B<double hyphen syntax>, with
debug messages printed to stderr:

    ffcast -vv -s ffmpeg -r 30 -vcodec libx264 out.mkv

Screencast fullscreen on display C<:1>, using the default B<ffmpeg> command
line and saving to a B<mkv> file in B<$HOME>:

    DISPLAY=:1 ffcast

=head1 ORIGINAL AUTHOR

lolilolicon E<lt>lolilolicon@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 MAINTAINER

Javier Lopez E<lt>m@javier.ioE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<ffmpeg(1)>, B<avconv(1)>, B<byzanz-record(1)>, B<recordmydesktop(1)>, B<X(7)>

=for comment
vim:ft=pod:spell:spelllang=en_us:cc=78:

=cut
